hey everyone this is come on and today's
video is about system design basics
we're not going to go into the depth of
each of the items that we'll be covering
but this is to give you a high level
overview of
all the bits and pieces of the system
design and how they fit together to make
the application work when a user opens a
website the first thing that they
interact with
is the browser let's say that a user
wants to open the website google.com for
browser to open the website it needs to
know where this website is located to
find out where it is located it uses
something called the dns
which stands for domain name system and
it is responsible for telling us where
the website is located there's much more
details about how it works and how the
website is found on the internet
but we're not going to cover in this
video we'll do that in the future videos
for now just know that the browser sends
it the name of the website
and it gives us back the ip address of
the website where the website is located
now that the browser has got the ip
address of the website it knows where
the
application servers are so it can make a
call to the server
and get back the web page of the website
now that the browser has received the
website it can start rendering the web
page the web page might have different
kinds of static assets
such as the style sheets images and the
javascript files
now all these files can either be served
from the single server
the original server where our website is
or people normally put them on the cdn
so cdn stands for content delivery
networks and these are special kinds of
servers which are located
all across the globe and serving the
assets from there is much faster than
serving from the single server
let's understand the reason for that by
taking an example so here i have an
example
server which doesn't use the cdn to
serve its static assets so as you can
see here our server is sitting on one
corner of the word and our users are on
the other side of the word now since the
distance between our users and servers
is much higher
the request will be slow because the
request has to go through several hops
to reach us
and getting the static assets from the
server is time consuming also we are
putting all the load on our server
because we are hosting all the static
assets now let's look at the same
example with the use of cdn as you can
see here the
request instead of coming to our servers
are going to the black dots which are
the cdns and whatever the closest
server is to the user the request will
be served from there
and also the static assets will be
cached here so the response times will
be much lower than
coming from the server and getting the
assets from there also apart from the
faster response times
the load on our server is going to be
much lower because we are not serving
all the assets they are coming from the
cdns and again we are just scratching
the surface of the cdn we are going to
cover this in much more detail in the
future videos
now let's talk about the server so on
the server side if we start getting a
high load of traffic
our resources on the server might
exhaust and you might have to increase
the resources to support the high load
of traffic so let's say that if we had
500 mb of ram
and it's not able to keep up with the
load of traffic that we are getting
we might increase it to 2gb let's say to
support the traffic that we are getting
this process of
increasing the capacity of the existing
resources such as the cpu
ram or memory is called vertical scaling
vertical scaling although works and it
might be a suitable option for some time
it is not always a viable option and the
reason for that is because
there is a limit to the capacity that
you can increase on the server and also
because having one server
gives us one point of failure so if our
one server goes down our application
will go down the other option is to
go with the horizontal scaling which
means to add more
resources to serve the requests which
means that we have more servers which
are handling our requests
instead of having just one server but we
can't just add servers and it will work
we need to divide the traffic among
these servers
equally so to do that we implement
something called a load balancer
so load balancer is responsible for
identifying the servers which are
available
and distributing the traffic among them
equally next in the modern application
architecture such as microservices or
soa
there might be several services that
these servers will be talking to for
example there might be a service for
registration and authentication there
might be a separate api for
sending emails and so on communication
between these apis is normally done with
the help of
restful apis or grpc or with the help of
the message queues
we will be covering these architectural
styles in much more depth
in the future videos but i just wanted
to highlight the different architectural
styles here
with which these apis might be set up
next we have storage
there might be different kinds of
storages that an application might be
using first of all we have database that
you probably already know that is to
store the application data in there
there are different kinds of databases
such as sql
nosql and graph databases for example
there is postgre mysql mariadb
mongodb neo4j and so on we'll be
covering when to use what and the
databases in much more detail in the
future when we talk about the databases
next we have caching which is the place
where we store the results of
expensive computations to save time and
the resources
so for example if you had a qre or some
calculation which takes around 5 seconds
you might do it once and then cache it
for some time in the caching layer
and return from there to make your
subsequent requests faster
for the caching you can use something
like redis or memcache or
there are several other options which
you can go with and then we have cloud
storage
such as s3 where we store the
application content such as
any kind of pdf files or database
backups and so on
and next we have the data warehouse
which is the place where we dump
loads and loads of data to perform the
analysis on that there are different
services available which you can use for
that for example i have used snowplow in
the past or there is also aws fire hose
and so on and next most of the
application have some kind of logging
service which is used to monitor
and check the logs to make sure that
everything is working properly
the most famous one is elk stack which
is where all the logs are dumped and
then
it can be visualized or searched through
next we have messaging and cues which
are used to perform
background or asynchronous operations so
for example when a user registers if you
want to trigger them an email or to
notify the customer support
you can do this stuff with the help of
messaging and queues there is revitamq
there's nets and there are multiple
other services which can be used to
implement the messaging and queues
there are multiple different ways and
patterns of using the messaging and
queues
and i have written an article in the
past on how we were using it in my last
company
and we'll be learning more about them in
the future videos and the last one we
have today is the search engine
which are used to implement the full
text search capabilities in our
application so for example if you have
used amazon.com you might have seen that
when you search for a book
it shows you all the books matching the
specific criteria that you gave
this has not been implemented using the
search engines so for example there are
tools such as
sphinx elasticsearch or solar which can
be used to implement the
full text search capabilities and with
that our lesson comes to an end i'll be
doing a series of videos in the coming
weeks
governing each of the topics that we
covered in this video in much more
detail
and giving you the practical tips on
using them thank you for watching and i
will see you next week